--- Page 1 ---
FOR PUBLICATION 
 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
 
J. DOE, 1; J. DOE, 2-5, individually 
and on behalf of all others similarly 
situated, 
 
                     Plaintiffs - Appellants, 
 
   v. 
 
GITHUB, INC., a Delaware 
corporation; MICROSOFT 
CORPORATION, a Washington 
corporation; OPENAI, INC., a 
Delaware nonprofit corporation; 
OPENAI, LP, a Delaware limited 
partnership; OPENAI GP, LLC, a 
Delaware limited liability company; 
OPENAI STARTUP FUND GP I, 
LLC, a Delaware limited liability 
company; OPENAI STARTUP 
FUND I, LP, a Delaware limited 
partnership; OPENAI STARTUP 
FUND MANAGEMENT, LLC, a 
Delaware limited liability company; 
OPENAI OPCO, LLC; OPENAI, 
LLC; OPENAI GLOBAL, LLC; OAI 
CORPORATION; OPENAI 
HOLDINGS, LLC; OPENAI 
 No. 24-7700 
D.C. No. 
4:22-cv-06823-
JST 
 
OPINION 

--- Page 2 ---
2 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
HOLDCO, LLC; OPENAI 
INVESTMENT; OPENAI 
STARTUP FUND SPV I, LP; 
OPENAI STARTUP FUND SPV GP 
I, LLC, 
 
                     Defendants - Appellees. 
 
Appeal from the United States District Court  
for the Northern District of California 
Jon S. Tigar, District Judge, Presiding 
 
Argued and Submitted February 11, 2026 
San Francisco, California 
 
Filed September 16, 2026 
 
Before: Sidney R. Thomas and Eric D. Miller, Circuit 
Judges, and Stanley Blumenfeld, Jr., District Judge.* 
 
Opinion by Judge Miller 
  
 
* The Honorable Stanley Blumenfeld, Jr., United States District Judge 
for the Central District of California, sitting by designation. 
 

--- Page 3 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  3 
SUMMARY** 
 
Digital Millennium Copyright Act 
 
In an interlocutory appeal pursuant to 28 U.S.C. 
§ 1292(b), the panel affirmed the district court’s dismissal of 
part of an action brought under the Digital Millennium 
Copyright Act (“DMCA”) by programmers against GitHub, 
Inc., and other defendants. 
GitHub is a platform that allows developers to store, 
manage, and share their code.  GitHub Copilot and Codex 
are tools that help programmers write code using artificial 
intelligence—specifically, large language models that were 
trained on millions of software projects on GitHub.  
Plaintiffs alleged that Cop ilot and Codex reproduced their 
code without attribution in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 1202(b), 
a provision of the DMCA. 
The panel concluded that plaintiffs had Article III 
standing to bring their DMCA claim because they plausibly 
alleged a substantial risk of injury. 
The panel nonetheless held that plaintiffs did not state a 
claim under the DMCA because their allegations under an 
“output” theory showed that Copilot and Codex do not 
“remove or alter” copyright management information from 
a copy of an existing protected work but instead create new 
works that never contained that information.   
 
** This summary constitutes no part of the opinion of the court.  It has 
been prepared by court staff for the convenience of the reader. 

--- Page 4 ---
4 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
The panel declined to consider, as forfeited, plaintiffs’ 
“input” theory of DMCA liability. 
 
 
COUNSEL 
Jesse Panuccio (argued), Daniel Morales, and Evan M. 
Ezray, Boies Schiller Flexner LLP, Fort Lauderdale, Florida; 
Joshua M. Stein, Maxwell V. Pritt, and Margaux 
Poueymirou, Boies Schiller Flexner LLP, San Francisco, 
California; Matthew Butterick, Butterick  Law PC, Los 
Angeles, California; Joseph R. Saveri, Christopher K.L. 
Young, William W.C. Guardado, and Evan Creutz, Saveri 
Law Firm LLP, San Francisco, California; for Plaintiffs -
Appellants. 
Lisa S. Blatt (argued), Erin M. Sielaff, Claire R. Cahill, 
Thomas G. Hentoff, and Claire L. Lazar, Williams & 
Connolly LLP, Washington, D.C.; Christopher J. Cariello 
(argued), Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, New York, 
New York; Alyssa M. Caridis, and Geoffrey C. Shaw, Orrick 
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, Los Angeles, California; Jonas 
Q. Wang, Orrick Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, Washington, 
D.C.; Nicholas Gonzalez and Annette L. Hurst, Orrick 
Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP, San Francisco, California; 
Aileen McG rath, Joseph C. Gratz, and Tiffany Cheung, 
Morrison & Foerster LLP, San Francisco, California; John 
R. Lanham, Morrison & Foerster LLP, San Diego, 
California; for Defendants-Appellees. 
Brian Scarpelli and Priya Nair, ACT The App Association, 
Washington, D.C., for Amicus Curiae ACT The App 
Association. 

--- Page 5 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  5 
Paul N. Harold, Wilson Sonsini Goodrich & Rosati PC, 
Washington, D.C., for Amici Curiae Chamber of Progress 
and Computer & Communications Industry Association. 
Robert W. Clarida, Reitler Kailas & Rosenblatt LLP, New 
York, New York, for Amici Curiae The Authors Guild Inc., 
The Association of American Publishers, The News/Media 
Alliance, and The International Association of Scientific 
Technical and Medical Publishers. 
Corynne McSherry and Victoria Noble, Electronic Frontier 
Foundation, San Francisco, California, for Amici Curiae 
Electronic Frontier Foundation and Public Knowledge. 
Christopher Bavitz, Cyberlaw Clinic, Harvard Law School, 
Cambridge, Massachusetts, for Amicus Curiae Authors 
Alliance. 
Jennifer M. Urban and Erik Stallman, Samuelson Law 
Technology & Public Policy Clinic, University of California 
at Berkeley School of Law, Berkeley, California, for Amici 
Curiae Intellectual Property Law Professors. 
 
 
OPINION 
MILLER, Circuit Judge: 
 
GitHub is a platform that allows developers to store, 
manage, and share their code. GitHub Copilot (Copilot) and 
Codex are tools  that help programmers write code using 
artificial intelligence —specifically, large language model s 
that were trained on millions of software projects on GitHub. 
Plaintiffs are programmers who published open-source code 
on GitHub. They believe that Copilot  and Codex  may 

--- Page 6 ---
6 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
reproduce their code without attribution and allege that, were 
that to happen, it would violate 17 U.S.C. § 1202(b), enacted 
as part of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) , 
Pub. L. No. 105 -304, § 103, 112 Stat. 2860 , 2872 (1998) . 
Plaintiffs brought this action  under the DMCA , and t he 
district court dismissed plaintiffs’ DMCA claims. We agree 
with the district court that plaintiffs  do not  state a claim 
under the DMCA because their allegations show that Copilot 
and Codex do not “remove or alter” copyright management 
information (CMI) from a copy of an existing protected 
work but instead create new works that never contained that 
information. See 17 U.S.C. §  1202(b)(1). We therefore 
affirm. 
I 
Microsoft owns and operates GitHub, which is  the 
world’s largest hosting service for open -source software—
that is, software whose creators choose to make its  source 
code publicly available. Much of the code in public 
repositories on GitHub is made available under open-source 
licenses that permit other developers to use or modify that 
code subject to certain conditions. One of the most common 
conditions is attribution, meaning that a copy of the 
license—including the author’s name and copyright 
notice—must be included with any copy or derivative of the 
code. 
Microsoft is also a major investor in OpenAI, a company 
that develops and sells artificial intelligence models. One of 
OpenAI’s projects is Codex, a generative AI tool that works 
autonomously to  draft code based on a programmer’s 
prompts. Copilot is a paid subscription service jointly 
developed by GitHub and OpenAI that uses a modif ied 
version of Codex to produce blocks of code in response to a 

--- Page 7 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  7 
user’s prompts. In all respects  relevant to this case, Codex 
and Copilot function similarly, so for simplicity, we will 
refer solely to Copilot. 
As described in the complaint, Copilot is a  large 
language model that works by identifying statistical patterns 
in the structure of code. The model rel ies on those patterns 
to identify the “most statistically likely completion, based on 
the examples it reviewed in training,” to a particular prompt 
or snippet of code.  To identify relevant statistical patterns, 
Copilot was trained on billions of lines of publicly available 
code, including code from “all available public GitHub 
repositories.”  
Plaintiffs are programmers who have published 
copyrighted code, subject to various licenses, on public 
GitHub repositories. They brought this putative class action 
against GitHub, Microsoft , and OpenAI  in the Northern 
District of California . After two rounds of dismissals and 
amendments, the complaint has been whittled down to three 
claims: one claim under the DMCA and two claims for 
breach of contract. 
Plaintiffs’ DMCA claim rests on their allegation  that 
Copilot will sometimes produce “identical copies of code 
Copilot was trained on,” a possibility that “is only increasing 
as the model scales.” The operative complaint includes 
examples of cases in which Copilot reproduced “essentially 
verbatim” copies of code written by the proposed class 
representatives. Plaintiffs allege that when Copilot 
reproduces code from its training materials, it does not 
include the attribution, copyright notices, or other license 
terms that were included with the code when it was 
published on GitHub . Plaintiffs claim that this omission 
violates section 1202(b) of the DMCA. 

--- Page 8 ---
8 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
“In enacting the DMCA, Congress sought to mitigate the 
problems presented by copyright enforcement in the digital 
age.” MDY Indus., LLC v. Blizzard Ent., Inc., 629 F.3d 928, 
942 (9th Cir. 2010)  (citing Universal City Studios, Inc. v. 
Corley, 273 F.3d 429, 440 (2d Cir. 2001)). As relevant here, 
section 1202 makes it unlawful to (1) “intentionally remove 
or alter any [CMI],” (2) “distribute or import for distribution 
[CMI] knowing that the [CMI] has been removed or altered 
without authority of the copyright owner or the law,” or 
(3) “distribute, import for distribution, or publicly perform 
works, copies of works, or phonorecords, knowing that 
[CMI] has been removed or altered without authority of the 
copyright owner or the law .” 17 U.S.C. §  1202(b). The 
DMCA defines CMI as certain “information conveyed in 
connection with copies . . . of a work,” including “[t]he title 
and other information identifying the work, including the 
information set forth on a notice of copyright,” “[t]he name 
of, and other id entifying information about, the author” or 
“the copyright owner of the work,” and the “[t]erms and 
conditions for use of the work.” Id. § 1202(c). The DMCA 
does not require  works to include  CMI or prescribe the 
particular types of CMI that may be used. But if a work does 
contain CMI, section 1202(b) protects that CMI  from 
deliberate removal or alteration. 
The district court dismissed the DMCA claim  under 
Federal Rule of Civil Procedure 12(b)(6), first with leave to 
amend, and then with  prejudice. The court reasoned “that 
Section 1202(b) claims require that copies be ‘identical.’” It 
emphasized plaintiffs’ allegations that Copilot’s output is 
often a “near-identical copy” or “modified copy” of code on 
GitHub, explaining that  the complaint’s  examples all 
involved instances  in which  “the Copilot output is a 
‘modified format,’ ‘variation [],’ or the ‘functional [] 

--- Page 9 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  9 
equivalent’ of the licensed code.”  The court concluded that 
those allegations were not sufficient to state a claim under 
the DMCA because plaintiffs’ code and  Copilot’s output 
“were not identical.” The court denied a motion to  dismiss 
the contract claims, which remain pending. 
The district court certified its order dismissing the 
section 1202(b) claims for interlocutory appeal under 28 
U.S.C. §  1292(b). The court held that “whether Sections 
1202(b)(1) and (b)(3) of the DMCA impose an identicality 
requirement” is a controlling question of law on which there 
is substantial ground for difference of opinion. 
We review de novo the district court’s grant of a motion 
to dismiss. Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. v. Mahogany Meadows 
Ave. Tr., 979 F.3d 1209, 1213 (9th Cir. 2020). “To survive a 
motion to dismiss, a complaint must contain sufficient 
factual matter, accepted as true, to ‘state a claim to relief that 
is plausible on its face.’” Ashcroft v. Iqbal , 556 U.S. 662, 
678 (2009) (quoting Bell Atl. Corp. v. Twombly , 550 U.S. 
544, 570 (2007)). 
II 
Plaintiffs have articulated two different theories of 
DMCA violations. The first, which we will call the “input” 
theory, is that defendants violated section 1202(b)(1) at the 
training stage by removing CMI from  putative class 
members’ code before feeding the stripped code into Copilot 
as training data. The second, which we will call the “output” 
theory, is that Copilot sometimes returns memorized training 
data as output to users without including the source code’s 
CMI, and that in doing so Copilot “remove[s]” or “alter[s]” 
CMI on copies of plaintiffs’ protected work, in violation of 
section 1202(b)(1) and (3).  

--- Page 10 ---
10 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
We decline to consider  the input theory  because 
plaintiffs forfeited it. Read in isolation, the complaint might 
be understood to assert such a theory. For example, the 
complaint alleges that “Defendants removed or altered CMI 
from open-source code that is owned by Class members after 
the code was uploaded to a GitHub repository by 
incorporating it i nto Copilot with its CMI removed.” But 
although plaintiffs at times gestured toward an input theory, 
the district court made clear that it did not understand 
plaintiffs to have asserted a claim  based on that theory . At 
the hearing on defendants’ first motion to dismiss, the court 
asked whether the act of copying training data into Copilot 
violated the attribution requirement of open-source licenses, 
and plaintiffs’ counsel answered, “Perhaps it doesn’t.”  The 
court then observed that the “complaint is not about training. 
It just isn’t.”  And in the district court’s subsequent order 
granting in part defendants’ motion to dismiss plaintiffs’ first 
complaint, the court stated unequivocally: “Plaintiffs do not 
allege they were injured by Defendants’ use of licensed code 
as training data.” 
If plaintiffs believed that the district court misunderstood 
their position, it was incumbent upon them to say so. But 
plaintiffs did not do so, either orally or in writing. In arguing 
that they preserved an input theory, plaintiffs point only  to 
their statement that “[t]he DMCA makes the mere removal 
of CMI from digital copies illegal before distribution of 
copies” and to one of OpenAI’s filings, in which OpenAI 
purportedly acknowledged that plaintiffs advanced a claim 
based on “the pre -distribution removal of CMI.” Plaintiffs’ 
statement was part of their explanation of the distinction 
between section 1202(b)(1) and  section 1202(b)(3) and did 
not suggest disagreement with the district court’s conclusion 
that the complaint did not advance an input theory. And the 

--- Page 11 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  11 
cited OpenAI filing argued that plaintiffs’ second amended 
complaint “ admits that no pre-distribution [CMI] removal 
occurred” and does not allege any claim based on a pre -
distribution removal theory.  Plaintiffs have identified 
nothing in their district court briefing after the first motion 
to dismiss that would have put the court on notice that they 
wished to pursue an input theory. We therefore conclude that 
plaintiffs forfeited the theory. 
III 
As to the output theory , defendants argue that plaintiffs 
lack standing because they did not adequately allege that 
their code w ill be subject to copying by Copilot without 
reproduction of the accompanying CMI. The district court 
did not address standing in its  order granting the motion to 
dismiss, and the question certified for appeal does not 
discuss standing. But our jurisdiction under section 1292(b) 
“applies to the order certified to the court of appeals, and is 
not tied to the particular question formulated by the district 
court.” Yamaha Motor Corp., U.S.A. v. Calhoun , 516 U.S. 
199, 205 (1996). We therefore “may address any issue fairly 
included within the certified order.” Id. That includes the 
question of standing . Although that question was “not 
expressly certified,” the district court had addressed it in an 
earlier order, and it  is “fairly raised by the order under 
review.” Lee v. American Nat’l Ins. Co., 260 F.3d 997, 1001 
(9th Cir. 2001). 
To establish Article III standing, a plaintiff must show, 
among other things, that it faces an injury in fact —that is, 
“an invasion of a legally protected interest which is 
(a) concrete and particularized and (b)  actual or imminent, 
not conjectural or hypothetical .” Lujan v. Def enders of 
Wildlife, 504 U.S. 555, 560 (1992)  (citation, internal 

--- Page 12 ---
12 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
quotation marks, and footnote omitted).  “An allegation of 
future injury” can establish standing if “there is a substantial 
risk that the harm will occur.” Susan B. Anthony List v. 
Driehaus, 573 U.S. 149, 158 (2014) ( citation and internal 
quotation marks omitted). Allegations of standing “ must be 
supported in the same way as any other matter on which the 
plaintiff bears the burden of proof, i.e., with the manner and 
degree of evidence required at the successive stages of the 
litigation.” Lujan, 504 U.S. at 561.  “At the pleading stage, 
general factual allegations of injury resulting from the 
defendant’s conduct may suffice” because courts must 
“presum[e] that general allegations embrace those specific 
facts that are necessary to support the claim.”  Id. (quoting 
Lujan v. National Wildlife Fed’n, 497 U.S. 871, 889 (1990)). 
According to defendants, even if Copilot makes copies 
of code without CMI, the risk that it will reproduce 
plaintiffs’ code—rather than the code of some other GitHub 
contributor—is “no more than conjecture .” City of Los 
Angeles v. Lyons, 461 U.S. 95, 108 (1983). We disagree. The 
complaint alleges a substantial risk of injury because it states 
that “Copilot reproduces the code of the Named Plaintiffs 
without attribution,” “that many if not all prompts entered 
into Copilot will readily cause it to emit verbatim, near -
verbatim, or modified copies of Licensed Material that 
violate the licenses under which the source code is 
published,” that “[i]t is therefore likely if not certain that 
verbatim, near -verbatim or modified copies of each 
Plaintiff[’s] code have already been emitted by Copilot,” and 
that “each day these violations must be accruing with 
astonishing frequency.” 
Of course, a complaint must “contain sufficient factual 
matter” to make the stated allegations plausible. Iqbal, 556 
U.S. at 678. But the complaint here meets that standard. The 

--- Page 13 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  13 
complaint cites academic research finding that large 
language models will sometimes “emit the memorized 
training data verbatim,” a phenomenon that “will likely get 
worse as models continue[] to scale.” The complaint notes 
that GitHub has implemented a duplicate -detection feature 
that allows users to block output suggestions matching 
public cod e—specifically, verbatim snippets of 150 
characters or mor e—which is some evidence that Copilot 
can and does emit literally identical copies of code. And the 
complaint also provides examples of cases in which Copilot 
reproduced portions of the named plaintiffs’ code verbatim. 
If this case were to proceed to summary judgment, 
plaintiffs would need to present evidence sufficient to create 
a genuine factual issue as to whether they face a “substantial 
risk” of harm. Susan B. Anthony List , 573 U.S. at 158.  We 
need not determine whether the evidence referred to in the 
complaint would be sufficient to meet that standard. But the 
factual allegations in the complaint make it plausible that 
plaintiffs face a substantial risk, and that is enough to survive 
a motion to dismiss. 
IV 
Turning to the merits of the output theory, we agree with 
the district court that the complaint does not state a claim 
under the DMCA.  The complaint describes an AI tool that 
does not look up and reproduc e stored work but rather 
creates new work. That new work may or may not infringe 
plaintiffs’ copyrights in their code, but it cannot reasonably 
be described as a copy of that code from which CMI has been 
“removed” or “altered.” 
“[W]e start where we always do: with the text of the 
statute.” Van Buren v. United States , 593 U.S. 374, 381 
(2021). Section 1202(b) provides that “[n]o person shall, 

--- Page 14 ---
14 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
without the authority of the copyright owner or the law,” 
“intentionally remove or alter any copyright management 
information” or “distribute . . . works [or] copies of works,  
. . . knowing that copyright management information has 
been removed or altered without authority of the copyright 
owner or the law.” 17 U.S.C. §  1202(b)(1), (3).  The verb 
“remove” means “to get rid of,” while “alter” means “ to 
cause to become different in some particular characteristic.” 
Webster’s Third New Int ernational Dictionary  63, 1921 
(1993). In context, b oth verbs imply taking an affirmative 
act with respect to CMI connected to a work that already 
exists. See, e.g., 4 Nimmer on Copyright § 12A.10[B][1][a] 
(2026) (citing “defacing  . . . the title page of a book” or 
“delet[ing] the electronic information that may accompany a 
computer file” as paradigmatic section 1202(b) violations).  
One who creates a new work and fails to include CMI cannot 
be said to have “removed” or “altered” anything.  See 
Falkner v. General Motors LLC , 393 F. Supp. 3d 927, 938 
(C.D. Cal. 2018) (explaining that mere “failure to include” 
CMI does not “constitute[] removal or alteration” of CMI) ; 
accord Kipp Flores Architects, LLC v. AMH Creekside Dev., 
LLC, No. 23-50750, 2026 WL 2453096, at *13–17 (5th Cir. 
Aug. 21, 2026) (opinion of Willett, J.) . Instead, removal or 
alteration requires taking away  or changing  attribution 
information from an existing work. 
The statutory definition of CMI reinforces this reading. 
CMI is “information conveyed in connection with copies . . . 
of a work,” not in connection with excerpts or derivative 
works. 17 U.S.C. § 1202(c) (emphasis added). A “copy” of 
a work is a “material object[] . . . in which a work is fixed,” 
id. § 101, so CMI is information that exists in connection 
with those material objects.  Violating section 1202(b) 
requires removing or altering the CMI on thos e material 

--- Page 15 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  15 
objects, such as by reprinting an image while cropping out 
the “printed gutter credit near the [i]mage” identifying the 
photographer. Murphy v. Millennium Radio Grp. , 650 F.3d 
295, 305 (3d Cir. 2011); see also Falkner, 393 F. Supp. 3d 
at 938–39 (photographer did not remove or alter CMI when 
he photographed a mural from an angle that rendered the 
artist’s signature not visible). To state a claim under section 
1202, plaintiffs must therefore allege that defendants 
removed or altered CMI from copies of existing protected 
works; merely alleging that a similar or derivative work does 
not include the CMI, without facts showing its removal or 
alteration, is insufficient. 
The district court and defendants characterize this 
principle as the DMCA’s “identicality” requirement. But 
“identicality” is something of a misnomer because the 
DMCA does not require literal identicality between the 
plaintiff’s work and the allegedly infringing work . The 
concept of “identicality” is best understood as a gloss on the 
statutory terms “remove,” “alter,” and “copies” rather than 
an independent (and atextual) element of a section 1202(b) 
claim. 
To the extent identicality is relevant, it is because  one 
way to determine whether CMI has been “remove[d]” from 
a copyrighted work is to compare the allegedly infringing 
copy with the original. If the two works are otherwise 
identical—sharing, for example, the same composition, 
cropping, or other distinctive features—but the allegedly 
infringing version omits the CMI that accompanied the 
original, a factfinder may reasonably infer that the defendant 
removed CMI from the copied work. We relied on just such 
a comparison in Friedman v. Live Nation Merchandise, Inc., 
where we held that because the allegedly infringing 
photographs were “exact copies” of the images as they 

--- Page 16 ---
16 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
appeared in the copyright owner’s book, and “[b]ecause the 
only material difference” in the allegedly infringing versions 
“was that the CMI was missing, it was necessarily the case 
that the CMI had been removed on the copied version.” 833 
F.3d 1180, 1188 (9th Cir. 2016).  Although substantial 
reproduction of a plaintiff’s existing work without CMI is 
not always dispositive, it will often be strong circumstantial 
evidence that the defendant removed CMI from a copy of the 
plaintiff’s work. On the other hand, m aterial differences 
between the works  may suggest that the defendant instead 
created a new, derivative work to which the plaintiff’s CMI 
was never attached and from which the defendant could not 
have “removed” or “altered” CMI. 
Plaintiffs observe that requiring literal identicality would 
make it easy to circumvent the DMCA : So long as the 
defendant changed one word on one page of a book , in 
addition to deleting the CMI, that person would avoid 
violating section 1202(b) because the original and allegedly 
infringing versions would not be identical. But as defendants 
concede, the two works need not be literally identical to 
support an inference that CMI has been removed. See Real 
World Media LLC v. Daily Caller, Inc., 744 F. Supp. 3d 24, 
40 (D.D.C. 2024) (“[I]t would be odd if a defendant could 
evade DMCA liability by removing or altering CMI in a 
copied work but only disseminating 99% rather than 100% 
of that work.”). Minor cosmetic changes will not necessarily 
protect a defendant who substantially or entirely reproduces 
the protected work and removes CMI. See New York Times 
Co. v. Microsoft Corp., 777 F. Supp. 3d 283, 317 (S.D.N.Y. 
2025). 
But that concession does not help plaintiffs because they 
have not alleged removal of CMI from a copy of their work, 
even one with minor alterations. In reaching that conclusion, 

--- Page 17 ---
 DOE V. GITHUB, INC.  17 
we recognize the limitation of relying on examples involving 
traditional print medi a, such as when a defendant has 
“defac[ed] .  . . the title page of a book ,” 4 Nimmer on 
Copyright § 12A.10[B][1][a] (2026). While such examples 
may provide a useful starting point for reasoning by analogy, 
they do not map  neatly onto the emerging digital 
technologies like artificial intelligence to which the 
DMCA’s protections also apply. Even so, plaintiffs’ own 
allegations about Copilot show that it is best understood as  
learning from existing works and  then creating new works 
based on that learning process , not as making copies of 
existing works.  
According to the complaint, Copilot relies on a “complex 
probabilistic process” to predict “the most likely solution to 
a given prompt,” based on “the solution it has found in the 
most projects” answering similar questions. Sometimes, 
plaintiffs allege, th at output may match snippets of “code 
from the training data.” But their account of the algorithm’s 
internal process —inferring “statistical patterns governing 
the structure of code” and identifying the most likely 
completion—does not describe an action taken with respect 
to CMI attached to an existing work.  Instead, it describes a 
process through which Copilot generates new works. In that 
respect, it differs from a traditional search engine, which, in 
response to a user’s query, retrieves and displays stored 
information—that is, copies of materials that already exist.  
If Copilot functioned like a search engine and produced 
outputs that were identical to plaintiffs’ code but did not 
contain CMI, then plaintiffs might have a stronger claim that 
Copilot had removed their CMI. But that is not what 
plaintiffs have alleged. 
To be sure,  Copilot’s output may in some cases be 
substantially similar to existing code . As the district court 

--- Page 18 ---
18 DOE V. GITHUB, INC. 
observed, Copilot may produce “a ‘modified format,’ 
‘variation[],’ or the ‘functional[] equivalent’ of the licensed 
code” without the CMI. We express no view on whether that 
similarity would allow plaintiffs to assert a claim for 
copyright infringement.  But we note that m any copyright 
cases involve the creation of a work that is substantially 
similar to the plaintiff’s without attribution.  See Yonay v. 
Paramount Pictures Corp. , 163 F.4th 685, 692 (9th Cir. 
2026) (“To show unlawful appropriation,” a plaintiff must 
show “that the works in question share ‘substantial similarity 
in protectable expression.’”  (emphasis omitted) (quoting 
Skidmore as Tr. for Randy Craig Wolfe Tr. v. Led Zeppelin, 
952 F.3d 1051, 1064 (9th Cir. 2020) (en banc))). If that were 
all it took to violate section 1202(b) , the DMCA would 
supplant traditional copyright protections  and subject 
defendants to potentially ruinous liability under the 
DMCA’s enhanced statutory damages . Compare 17 U.S.C. 
§ 1203(c)(3) (permitting up to $25,000 per violation) with 
17 U.S.C. §  504(c)(1) (capping traditional copyright 
statutory damages at $30,000 per work ). We decline 
plaintiffs’ invitation to transform run-of-the-mill copyright-
infringement claims into DMCA claims. 
AFFIRMED. 